content/post/2020/03/birds-of-prey/index.md, before:

---
date: 2020-03-24 21:12:03
slug: birds-of-prey
syndicated:
- type: mastodon
  url: https://mastodon.technology/users/roytang/statuses/103880314279390132
- type: twitter
  url: https://twitter.com/roytang/statuses/1242574427188912128/
tags:
- movies
- spoiler-free-review
title: Birds of Prey and the Fantabulous Emancipation of One Harley Quinn spoiler-free
  review!
---

(Too late for the theatrical release, but it's [tradition](/tags/spoiler-free-review) for comic book movies, so here we are.)

- Overall: Totally watchable, maybe slightly better than Suicide Squad for me.
- Somehow still fits into some kind of DCEU continuity (after [Suicide Squad](/2016/08/10154796013953912/))
- the movie is really centered around Harley, to the detriment of the other characters. I can understand why they titled it the way they did, and I can appreciate the effort to have Harley carry a Birds of Prey introduction to the masses. But I think it could have worked a lot better titled and marketed strictly as a Harley-centric movie that happens to set up an eventual Birds of Prey follow-up
- this one has a lot more Harley flavor than SS though: bright colors, gratuitous violence and so on
- Margot Robbie performs well, and she kind of has to as she's carrying the movie.
- Ewan McGregor's Roman Sionis/Black Mask is a great performance as well, although he is characterized as little more than psychopathic gang boss rather than anything specifically related to the comic book character
- Dinah Lance/Black Canary probably second-best characterization and plot beats out of the main cast (that's not saying much), and has some great fights. Jurnee Smollett-Bell gives a decent performance.
- Rosie Perez's Renee Montoya is described as someone out of an 80s cop movie, and she very much reminds me of Roger Murtaugh (of Lethal Weapon fame), which I suppose is what they were going for
- Huntress origins are comic book accurate, but Mary Elizabeth Winstead has very little to work with beyond that, and her character is kind of given a slapstick treatment
- Cassandra Cain is one of my favorite comic book characters. Unfortunately in this movie she is little more than a plot device
- there is no mid/post credits scene, although there is a little bit of a gag to taunt people who wait til the end.
- Magugustuhan ba ni mama? No!

Commit message:

added reviews meta to spoiler-free reviews

content/post/2020/03/birds-of-prey/index.md, after:

---
date: 2020-03-24 21:12:03
slug: birds-of-prey
syndicated:
- type: mastodon
  url: https://mastodon.technology/users/roytang/statuses/103880314279390132
- type: twitter
  url: https://twitter.com/roytang/statuses/1242574427188912128/
tags:
- movies
- spoiler-free-review
title: Birds of Prey and the Fantabulous Emancipation of One Harley Quinn spoiler-free
  review!
reviews:
- media: movies
  title: "Birds of Prey (and the Fantabulous Emancipation of One Harley Quinn) (2017)"
  description: Spoiler-free review
---

(Too late for the theatrical release, but it's [tradition](/tags/spoiler-free-review) for comic book movies, so here we are.)

- Overall: Totally watchable, maybe slightly better than Suicide Squad for me.
- Somehow still fits into some kind of DCEU continuity (after [Suicide Squad](/2016/08/10154796013953912/))
- the movie is really centered around Harley, to the detriment of the other characters. I can understand why they titled it the way they did, and I can appreciate the effort to have Harley carry a Birds of Prey introduction to the masses. But I think it could have worked a lot better titled and marketed strictly as a Harley-centric movie that happens to set up an eventual Birds of Prey follow-up
- this one has a lot more Harley flavor than SS though: bright colors, gratuitous violence and so on
- Margot Robbie performs well, and she kind of has to as she's carrying the movie.
- Ewan McGregor's Roman Sionis/Black Mask is a great performance as well, although he is characterized as little more than psychopathic gang boss rather than anything specifically related to the comic book character
- Dinah Lance/Black Canary probably second-best characterization and plot beats out of the main cast (that's not saying much), and has some great fights. Jurnee Smollett-Bell gives a decent performance.
- Rosie Perez's Renee Montoya is described as someone out of an 80s cop movie, and she very much reminds me of Roger Murtaugh (of Lethal Weapon fame), which I suppose is what they were going for
- Huntress origins are comic book accurate, but Mary Elizabeth Winstead has very little to work with beyond that, and her character is kind of given a slapstick treatment
- Cassandra Cain is one of my favorite comic book characters. Unfortunately in this movie she is little more than a plot device
- there is no mid/post credits scene, although there is a little bit of a gag to taunt people who wait til the end.
- Magugustuhan ba ni mama? No!
