---
title: 12 Feb 2002
author: Roy
type: post
date: 2002-02-12T04:00:27+00:00
url: /2002/02/12-feb-2002/
categories:
  - Legacy Blog Posts

---
Website updates: New text files in features section!

Ack&#8230;haven&#8217;t been doing much lately. My time has been consumed by the evil monster that is Sierra&#8217;s Betrayal at Krondor. It&#8217;s an RPG based on Raymond Feist&#8217;s Riftwar series of books. Haven&#8217;t read the books myself, but the game is well done, and is still enjoyable despite its age (I think it was released in &#8217;92 or such). The game was released by Sierra as freeware to promote the sequel, and it can be downloaded at [happypuppy.com
  
][1] 

The other thing I&#8217;ve been doing, is trying to catch up on my board exam review, and I&#8217;m fairly behind schedule. There&#8217;s around a month and a half left before the exam, but so far I&#8217;ve only reviewed most of the electronics topics. (The reviews are in 3 parts: electronics, communications and mathematics.)

Another thing I&#8217;ve been doing was working on my own RPG. The Palefire thing was great, but it seems no one in the group has time to do it anymore. While I still want to do Palefire, it&#8217;ll have to go to the back burner while everyone gets their acts together. Since I don&#8217;t have a new comp yet, no RPG programming of any sorts going to take place soon. Right now it&#8217;s mostly design, world-building, and setting the rules into place. I don&#8217;t even have a very solid plot yet, but I want to thresh out the world before focusing on the plot. Good luck to me.

Things I&#8217;m not doing: Learning more Japanese (which I promised myself I would do); Studying more programming (same); Writing fiction. I&#8217;d update the [Mecis story][2] but I found the first part of it severely lacking. When I have time, I&#8217;ll probably rewrite it altogether.

 [1]: http://www.happypuppy.com
 [2]: http://www.fanfiction.net/s/566295/1/