---
author:
  name: Roy
  url: http://www.blogger.com/profile/1694272
date: 2006-02-01 22:57:00+00:00
parent_page:
  title: How to Organize a Cluttered Mind?
  urlpath: /2006/01/how-to-organize-a-cluttered-mind/
source: wordpress
---

Eh, I'm fine.I wrote this towards the end of a particularly heavy week. While what I do  everyday closely approximates what I wrote here, it seldom reaches the stress  levels that the essay could imply.In the case of promotions, your concern is unneeded, as there's really no such  thing as a \*promotion\* in our company which has a flat hierarchy thingy.  Besides, one of my roles in the current project is Technical Lead, which means  that it actually \*is\* my job to handle technical questions within the project.The fact that I also handle a good number of technical concerns from \*outside\*  the project is a result of two concepts: mentoring and subject experts; I  don't know how it works in other industries, but typically in software, senior  developers are expected to mentor junior developers to help them gain  experience/knowledge. And there's a particular reporting tool we use where I'm  considered as the sole "subject expert" on its' use, so almost all technical  questions concerning this tool are handled by me.There are formal procedures for pretty much everything, including sending  clarifications, and most people will always ask if I'm busy before sending  something my way. But I guess it's actually my own preference to answer as  many clarifs as quickly as I can. I'm also pretty sure that addressing each  issue as soon as it possibly can is the best way to go; (This is one of the  overriding philosophies in the Getting Things Done methodology esposed by  David Allen) If I let the questions pile up I'd have a long list of them which  would be daunting to go through.It's not like I'm doing ten thousand things at once; I at least know how to  sequence my tasks. If I'm in the middle of something which requires 100% of my  concentration, I will typically ignore most incoming requests until I can get  to some break point which allows me to successfully shift gears. And in some  cases I will even welcome the distraction; somehow my mind thinks better after  I have temporarily focused on some other problem.The firefighting thing takes up 50% of my time at most, and only if I allow it  to. I always have the option of saying I don't have time or asking somebody to  check it for me."I mean, you can manage the load now, but if your company ever expands... "Note that I never said I was the only one doing this. 😀 In fact, I think the  current practice is scaling pretty-well re: the size of the company. We have  roughly 160 people working in technical positions, and I'm one of maybe around  5-8 who can handle these concerns on the same level (or better). About two  years ago, there were around 3 such guys to handle concerns for around 80  people.My current workload levels are more of a problem of lack of senior developers  assigned to our project more than anything else, and despite that I still do  not normally work overtime. Today was awesome though, with all the work I  managed to clear last week, it seems like all the heavy lifting had already  been done and most of my day was pretty light 😀