content/page/about.md, before:

---
title: About 
author: roy
type: page
date: 2018-02-11T17:15:26+00:00
url: /about

---
**About Roy Tang** 

![Wearing dice on my head since 2008](/uploads/diceonhead.jpg)

Programmer, engineer, scientist, critic, gamer, dreamer, and kid-at-heart. [Magic][1] player on weekends. Frustrated writer and sketch artist. Student of life and all-around good guy. On a never-ending quest for awesomeness. I'm a software developer by profession, currently working for [Maroon Studios][2]. I'm not averse to freelance consulting, if you have something interesting for me. I like Python and JavaScript, but I'm always willing to learn new things. 

To contact me, there are some helpful links on the sidebar. Best way is probably Twitter, my DMs are open.

**About the Site**

This site is hosted on [Webfaction][6]. If you are interested in web hosting services, kindly support me by using [my affiliate link][6].

I've been blogging since 2002! I used to be using self-hosted [Wordpress][7] but recently [migrated the site to Hugo][8].

 [1]: http://dailymtg.com
 [2]: https://maroonstudios.com/
 [3]: http://www.linkedin.com/in/roytang
 [4]: http://twitter.com/roytang
 [5]: https://www.instagram.com/roytang0400/
 [6]: https://www.webfaction.com/?aid=7808
 [7]: https://wordpress.org
 [8]: /2018/11/site-migration-from-wordpress-to-hugo/

Commit message:

Updated about page and resume

content/page/about.md, after:

---
title: About 
author: roy
type: page
date: 2018-02-11T17:15:26+00:00
url: /about
contentClass: about
---


**Roy Tang** 

![Wearing dice on my head since 2008](/uploads/diceonhead.jpg)

**Roy Tang** is a [programmer, engineer, scientist, critic, gamer, dreamer, and kid-at-heart](/2006/02/programmer-engineer-scientist-critic-gamer-dreamer-and-kid-at-heart/) from the [Philippines](/tags/philippines). Frustrated writer and [sketch artist](/2016/03/sketching-daily/). [Magic](http://dailymtg.com) player on weekends. Student of life and all-around good guy. On a never-ending quest for awesomeness. [Randomly amazed.](/2010/11/randomly-amazed/)

By profession, I'm a [software developer](/tags/software-development/), technical consultant, and solution architect, with industry experience since 2003. I am available for consulting work, if you have something interesting for me. I like Python and JavaScript, but I'm always willing to learn new things. You can view my resume [here](/resume/).

---

**roytang.net**

I've had a site on the internet since around 2001, in some form or another. I've had the domain roytang.net [since 2002](/2006/02/welcome-to-roytang-net/). You can view a [changelog](/tags/changelog) of this site. The site is perpetually under construction, as we all are.

This is a personal site; you can find here my posts about a random assortment of topics that interest me. Some of the most common topics include [software development](/tags/software-development/), [Magic the gathering](/tags/magic-the-gathering/), [pop culture](/tags/pop-culture), [gaming](/tags/gaming), and [tech life](/tech-life/). 

This site is hosted on [Webfaction](https://www.webfaction.com/?aid=7808). If you are interested in web hosting services, kindly support me by using [my affiliate link](https://www.webfaction.com/?aid=7808).

---

**Contact me**

- Email: [hello@roytang.net](mailto:hello@roytang.net)
- Twitter: [@roytang](https://twitter.com/roytang)
- LinkedIn: [roytang](https://www.linkedin.com/in/roytang/)
- Github: [roytang](https://github.com/roytang/)
- Instagram: [roytang0400](https://instagram.com/roytang0400/)
- Reddit: [/u/hungryroy](https://reddit.com/u/hungryroy)
