---
title: "The End is Nigh for Physical Gaming"
date: 2026-07-04T08:11:47+08:00
tags:
- gaming
---

Physical gaming collectors, enthusiasts, and preservationists got a lot of bad news over the last week or so. First, it was announced that the much anticipated GTA6, probably the biggest most anticipated gaming release of this generation, [will NOT have a disc in physical retail](https://www.ign.com/articles/grand-theft-auto-6-physical-copies-wont-include-a-disc-will-just-be-a-code-in-a-box), it will just be a code in a box. Then a couple of days ago another bombshell, this time from Sony: [physical disc production for Playstation consoles is ending in 2028](https://blog.playstation.com/2026/07/01/physical-disc-production-ending-in-january-2028-for-new-games-releasing-on-playstation-consoles/)!!

> "As consumer preferences and the broader entertainment industry continue to shift away from physical discs to digital, physical game disc production for all new games releasing on PlayStation consoles will be discontinued starting January 2028.  Following this date, new games will be available on PlayStation Store and at retailers in digital formats only. This transition has no impact on games that already released, or will be releasing, prior to January 2028 in disc format."

The response has been overwhelmingly negative, across multiple sectors, and rightly so. A mere console generation ago, Sony was mocking XBox's plans to release an all-digital console with a video titled simply [Official PlayStation Used Game Instructional Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kWSIFh8ICaA). 

Most of my gaming spend on consoles is on physical games, probably around 99%. I have no problems with digital purchases per se (after all, digital has been the norm on PC forever). The main reason I dislike digital purchases on consoles (and on mobile) is the lack of backward compatibility and portability. I purchased exactly one 3DS game on the eShop during its lifetime, and that purchase is forever tied to that hardware generation. There's no way for me to play that copy on Switch or whatever. If my 3DS hardware dies, that purchase is gone forever. Physical games have the same issue of course, but because you possess a physical thing, you have the option of reselling your games. I think for me, digital games not being able to be loaned out or resold is a fair tradeoff if they last longer and I can use them across different devices and generations. 

Most of my gaming spend on consoles is on physical games, probably around 99%. I have no problems with digital purchases per se. After all, digital has been the norm on PC forever, and my digital Steam library is huge. But I think the reason digital works so much better on PC rather than on console is that the PC is an open platform, and that has several consequences:

- Piracy is easier since the tools for copying and modifying files are baked into the OS. This means companies have to compete by providing a better experience than simply pirating games.
- This also means backing up game files and saves is a lot easier. And game preservation too! 
- Open platform also means competition. If you're not happy with Steam's digital licensing, you can buy DRM-free games from GOG.com and back them up and have them accessible forever! 
- Backward compatibility and portability: This is the big one for me. Software written for PCs 20 years ago or even older largely still work on modern systems. And with Steam advancing the state of Proton development, games are also mostly portable between Windows and Linux, so you're not even locked into Microsoft anymore. This is the main reason I dislike digital purchases on consoles (and on mobile): the lack of backward compatibility and portability. I purchased exactly one 3DS game on the eShop during its lifetime, and that purchase is forever tied to that hardware generation. There's no way for me to play that copy on Switch or whatever. If my 3DS hardware dies, that purchase is gone forever. Physical games have the same issue of course, but because you possess a physical thing, you have the option of reselling your games. I think for me, digital games not being able to be loaned out or resold is a fair tradeoff if they last longer and I can use them across different devices and generations. 

Unfortunately, I don't think most people think that way. We already live in a digital world where people things don't expect things to last. Movies and shows disappear randomly from streaming services. People don't backup their data and just shrug when they lose their old digital photos. Things just fade away and people don't care and they'll just pay for them again later or whatever. Younger generations are raised in a world where they don't own their digital things, they just have subscriptions and access things online and all of those can go away in an instant. 

I do think an all-digital console future has always been inevitable, though I'm a bit surprised how quickly it came. Until this announcement came about I've still been hoping for the longshot fantasy scenario where Sony announces a PS6 not only with a disc drive but also full disc-based backward compatibility for PS3, PS4, and PS5 games. I probably would have been willing to buy in again if that were the case! At least [XBox has supposedly been researching a way to convert your disc-based library to digital](https://www.engadget.com/2206315/xbox-is-reportedly-testing-a-way-to-digitize-your-disc-based-games/) so that you can carry them into the all-digital future. 

But for Sony, if they really are heading in this direction, that might be it for me and Playstation. It's been fun, but my gaming has already been mostly PC and digital over the last few years anyway. Although I do hope my PS3 and PS4 can still last for a while, as I have a nontrivial number of (physical) games I'd still like to play or revisit. 

My collection of physical games isn't that big, with the PS3 having the most games, plus a smattering for PS4, PSVita, 3DS, and Nintendo Switch. I don't have any regrets about buying them - I enjoyed the games for the most part - but I am a bit sad that future generations probably won't have the option to be collecting newer physical games. Having your physical games on a shelf feels much better than just a huge digital library!

Semi-related: at the same time as they announced killing the digital future, Sony also announced [the imminent closure of the PS3 and Vita stores](https://blog.playstation.com/2026/07/01/an-update-on-playstation-store-for-ps3-and-ps-vita/). This is less surprising than the other announcement, but still a bit sad. The WiiU and 3DS eshops also shut down a few years back. Hopefully Sony will keep the ability to redownload your old purchases and trophy support!