---
date: 2013-11-09 03:25:06
repost_source:
  name: oliviacirce
  type: tumblr
  url: https://oliviacirce.tumblr.com/post/48486628148/after-learning-my-flight-was-detained-4-hours-i
source: tumblr
syndicated:
- type: tumblr
  url: https://tumblr.roytang.net/post/66430400788/after-learning-my-flight-was-detained-4-hours-i
tags:
- quotes
---

<blockquote><p>After learning my flight was detained 4 hours,<br/>
I heard the announcement:<br/>
If anyone in the vicinity of gate 4-A understands any Arabic,<br/>
Please come to the gate immediately.</p>

<p>Well—one pauses these days. Gate 4-A was my own gate. I went there.<br/>
An older woman in full traditional Palestinian dress,<br/>
Just like my grandma wore, was crumpled to the floor, wailing loudly.<br/>
Help, said the flight service person. Talk to her. What is her<br/>
Problem? we told her the flight was going to be four hours late and she<br/>
Did this.</p>

<p>I put my arm around her and spoke to her haltingly.<br/>
Shu dow-a, shu- biduck habibti, stani stani schway, min fadlick,<br/>
Sho bit se-wee?</p>

<p>The minute she heard any words she knew—however poorly used—<br/>
She stopped crying.</p>

<p>She thought our flight had been canceled entirely.<br/>
She needed to be in El Paso for some major medical treatment the<br/>
Following day. I said no, no, we’re fine, you’ll get there, just late,</p>

<p>Who is picking you up? Let’s call him and tell him.<br/>
We called her son and I spoke with him in English.<br/>
I told him I would stay with his mother till we got on the plane and<br/>
Would ride next to her—Southwest.</p>

<p>She talked to him. Then we called her other sons just for the fun of it.</p>

<p>Then we called my dad and he and she spoke for a while in Arabic and<br/>
Found out of course they had ten shared friends.</p>

<p>Then I thought just for the heck of it why not call some Palestinian<br/>
Poets I know and let them chat with her. This all took up about 2 hours.</p>

<p>She was laughing a lot by then. Telling about her life. Answering<br/>
Questions.</p>

<p>She had pulled a sack of homemade mamool cookies—little powdered<br/>
Sugar crumbly mounds stuffed with dates and nuts—out of her bag—<br/>
And was offering them to all the women at the gate.</p>

<p>To my amazement, not a single woman declined one. It was like a<br/>
Sacrament. The traveler from Argentina, the traveler from California,<br/>
The lovely woman from Laredo—we were all covered with the same<br/>
Powdered sugar. And smiling. There are no better cookies.</p>

<p>And then the airline broke out the free beverages from huge coolers—<br/>
Non-alcoholic—and the two little girls for our flight, one African<br/>
American, one Mexican American—ran around serving us all apple juice<br/>
And lemonade and they were covered with powdered sugar too.</p>

<p>And I noticed my new best friend—by now we were holding hands—<br/>
Had a potted plant poking out of her bag, some medicinal thing,</p>

<p>With green furry leaves. Such an old country traveling tradition. Always<br/>
Carry a plant. Always stay rooted to somewhere.</p>

<p>And I looked around that gate of late and weary ones and thought,<br/>
This is the world I want to live in. The shared world.</p>

<p>Not a single person in this gate—once the crying of confusion stopped<br/>
—has seemed apprehensive about any other person.</p>

<p>They took the cookies. I wanted to hug all those other women too.<br/>
This can still happen anywhere.</p>

<p>Not everything is lost.</p></blockquote>
--Naomi Shihab Nye (b. 1952), “Wandering Around an Albuquerque Airport Terminal.” I think this poem may be making the rounds, this week, but that’s as it should be.  (via <a class="tumblr_blog" href="http://oliviacirce.tumblr.com/">oliviacirce</a>)<p>When I lose hope in the world, I remember this poem. </p> (via <a href="http://bookoisseur.tumblr.com/" class="tumblr_blog">bookoisseur</a>)