---
date: 2024-04-10 09:43:16
syndicated:
- type: mastodon
  url: https://indieweb.social/users/roytang/statuses/112246305004301670
title: In The Neighborhood
---

I've lived in this neighborhood for more than 20 years, but I really only started walking around the area regularly around 7-8 years ago when I started freelancing. There's like an area within maybe 2km of my house that I feel like I know pretty intimately because I've walked these streets countless times. I like to take note of when there are new shops or buildings being set up, and conversely, whenever old ones shut down or are lost for whatever reason.

It's a bit sad when I pass by a familiar street and a shop that used to be there has been shut down. It feels a bit like [link rot](/2021/02/link-rot/), except of course it is a much more normal occurence in real-life. Rents and businesses are hard to maintain, and physical things just naturally whither away over time and you can't back them up digitally. 

Sometimes I'm searching for something on Google Maps and one time I saw a listing for a shop that is no longer there (I think it was there when we first moved here, but was no longer there around 2016 or so) and I had the option to mark it as permanently closed so I did so. That was a couple of years back. Today I checked up on Google Maps and it was no longer listed there, instead there's an entry for the milk tea place that has since sprung up at that location. I think there were at least 1 or 2 other tennants in that location before them. 

Not even Google Maps seems to have any record of what used to be in that same spot. You hear this all the time when older people are talking, they will refer to locations as *"dun sa may dating [establishment]"* (near where the old [establishment] was). Sometimes you'll get lucky and find older photographs of an area that preserve those memories, reminding you of what used to be there, providing evidence of what used to exist. But for the most part those old places are just gone, consigned to memory and nostalgia.

I understand that this is the way of the world - people die and things die and businesses die and we move on. Unlike the digital realm, a neighborhood can only have so many shops and buildings, so the old must give way to the new. It is all part of [being mortal](/2023/12/being-mortal/) I guess. I find myself taking note of the new developments, especially in recent years as my neighborhood walking has gotten more regular.

Just outside our subdivision, a new three-story commercial building has been built. I was eagerly awaiting what new shops we would be getting. Maybe hopefully something like a Pan de Manila or Balai Pandesal? The closest ones are an inconvenient walk away. (Honestly at first I was hoping for a Bread Talk, but that has like 0% chance of happening.) The first shop that opened was a small Milk Tea shop. On the third floor! Wth, this seemed like an absurdly bad business decision. Milk tea shops are casual destinations that could use as much foot traffic as possible. I do not see a bright future for this one. Other shops soon opened on the third floor: some kind of beauty establishment (a common small business in areas like these), a photography studio (much more reasonable to be on the third floor); and on the second floor: a play area thing where you can leave your kids (not sure how good the market is for this in the neighborhood). As for the first floor, it is still being renovated but it looks like the shop being set up there is some kind of furniture store. Sigh, too bad.

A bit down the road is a 7-11. This might have been the first 7-11 we had in this area. I think nowadays we have 5 7-11s and a Ministop (now Uncle John's) within a 2k radius. 

Farther down the road is a Jollibee, which has been there since we moved here. Big fast food stores are very strong, it is rare for them to die. Just kidding; in the opposite direction away from the subdvision, there used to be both a McDonald's and a Jollibee, neither of which even made it to the pandemic. There is a McDonald's near the Trinoma entrance where I used to hang out a lot to wait out traffic back when I was still working in Ortigas. Now it's just an abandoned building.

Even farther down the road, I passed by on a taxi last night and saw that a new Dunkin had been opened in that area. It's a huge branch with a drive-thru and everything. About a decade ago, the closest Dunkin' was just a small building near the supermarket; this new Dunkin' might actually be one of the biggest non-mall branches I've ever seen.

Heading in another direction, there is a big hospital being built. The lot was fenced off during the pandemic and there wasn't much visible progress during most of it, but during the past year the pace of construction has gone up and by now we can see it's going to be a huge hospital with at least three stories. I'm looking forward to this; when it's done it will be the closest hospital to home, and we often have a lot of medical tests and such to do so maybe this new hospital will be more convenient.

Last year, the QC LGU also announced groundbreaking for a new public hospital which would be a bit nearer to us, but since the groundbreaking there has been no movement on that lot. Did they run out of budget?

The nearby supermarket where we do our grocery shopping used to be an independent grocery store. About a decade ago, it was bought up by SM and shut down for a while. It came back up after a couple of years, with some SM branding thrown in and a "mini-mall" section. Last month, I saw that SM had started to update the storefront signage, removing the old brand name completely. Soon the old independent store will be just another thing of the past, and younger people will just now the place to be an SM.

Across the street from the supermarket, there is a commercial building. A vape shop has opened in front of it recently, right in front of a Mercury Drug, which is kind of ironic? Or something.

A couple of weekends ago we had breakfast at a Conti's, near the supermarket. Conti's is kind of a expensive place, it feels a bit more upscale than the rest of the neighborhood. But maybe they are confident about the upcoming gentrification of the neighborhood. Except they first announced this Conti's five years ago, before the pandemic. There was a big banner in front of the lot and everything. During the pandemic, no progress at all. Last year they started construction and had a soft opening by December. we have no memory of what used to occupy that area.

Next to the Conti's, there is a larger vacant lot with a big banner out on the fence in front saying a Popeye's is being put up there. There has been no movement in that lot for months, though sometimes I see some construction vehicles entering the area. We'll see if it takes them another five years.

Nearby there is a large compound that used to be a private Catholic college (I think they also had high school levels). It was there since before we moved to this area, and it always caused traffic in this area whenever it was time for students to come in or go home. During the pandemic, the college suddenly announced it would be shutting down a month into the new school year, leaving students and faculty in the lurch. Today, the buildings have been repurposed and are being refurbished into a new commercial building. I'm looking forward to what new stores pop up there.

A bit farther away there was another Catholic school, I think only up to high school levels, across a major road. It also shut down suddenly, but this was before the pandemic. I note this one because my brother went there for high school! Can you imagine your old alma mater just suddenly no longer existing? What if someone tried to verify your school records and couldn't find your high school? The buildings were demolished quickly, and since then the lot has been repurposed and it will become part of an upcoming subway station. I am looking forward to this subway station, it would be the closest mass transit to our house, and the only one in walking distance.

A lot of people have small businesses in the area, something that boggles my mind since [I'll never be an entrepreneur](/2018/11/ill-probably-never-be-an-entrepreneur/). Despite the pandemic and all the risks and everything, people are willing to plunk down capital to start new businesses. I've seen so many small businesses come and go during the past few years. The most common small businesses in this area are: food places (unli wings is a popular choice for some reason), beauty salons or such, automotive/motorcycle support shops, pawnshops, dental clinics (why?), and recently I've seen an uptick in self-service laundromats; are more middle-class households giving up on doing laundry at home?

These aren't the sort of things a young person considers. There's a perspective that only comes from having lived and become familiar with a neighborhood for an extended period, a decade or more, seeing it change and shops rise and fall and old buildings torn down and new ones being built. I guess that leads to a strong sense of nostalgia and also a bit of excitement at what might come next. Honestly I can go on all day, but it's just about time for another walk.