---
title: "Anxiety When Complaining"
date: 2024-04-22T13:37:01+08:00
tags:
- anxiety
---

I consider myself a fully-functioning adult, but sometimes I still get hit with episodes of anxiety that just seem silly right afterwards. This is a story about one of those episodes.

Sometime last month, I had a voucher worth P1000 (a bit less than 20USD these days) for a certain popular drug store chain; let's reference them by the thinly-veiled "MD". This voucher was from a credit cards rewards program; that isn't really relevant. The voucher consists of a QR code that I'm supposed to show when transacting at MD. The QR code is actually a string code representing my voucher.

Anyway, I wanted to use the voucher so I went over to my nearby MD branch to buy my meds. I have been transacting at this branch often, and the employee who handled my order (let us call him "D") knew me by face at the very least. When I tried to use the voucher, his scanning device had an issue connecting to the network to validate the code. He tried a couple of times, but when it still failed, he suggested I just try it another time as their network was being wonky that day. Okay! I paid via credit card instead and resolved to use it at another time.

Fast forward around 20 days (a week or so ago), and I was on my way home from one of my many errands and it was a bit late but the MD branch was still open and I had to buy meds so I decided to try using the voucher again. This time, I was surprised when they scanned it and told me the voucher had already been used! I was a bit flummoxed, but I still needed to buy the meds so I just paid with cash and started walking home. 

On the way home, I felt incredibly frustrated and annoyed, because it felt like I had just been robbed of P1000! And I wasn't sure what to do, or whether it was still worth the time trying to get my voucher code back. Who do I complain to? The MD branch? The head office? The IT company that handles the vouchers? The credit card company whose rewards program I got it from? It's not like I could prove that I did NOT use the voucher (you can't really prove a negative). Overall I felt like it would be a waste of effort to try to complain as it might be unlikely that the voucher amount could be recovered. It felt like the sort of situation where there was a bug in the redemption system somewhere and the MD branch would blame the voucher company and vice versa and nothing would come out of it.

When I got home I ranted at some people and asked for advice. Some people suggested it was still worth pursuing, some people said it might not be worth it. Someone suggested escalating publicly via social media (this seemed excessive). Some people agreed that it seemed unlikely to have any positive outcome. Someone suggested that maybe the employee "D" used the voucher code himself later after I tried to use it, but I didn't want to accuse anyone.

I also tried to access the original URL from when I generated the QR code for the voucher and found a status message saying it had already been used on the date I first tried to use it, at that specific branch, so definitely a problem happened there!

In the end, I resolved to go back the next day and talk to the manager (or anyone) at the MD branch to see if it could be sorted out. Might as well try, right? Well, here's where the anxiety comes in. One of the underlying reasons why I was hesitant to pursue it is that the idea of complaining and being a Karen of sorts just gives me a lot of anxiety. It was troubling me enough that it made it hard to sleep that night, and I may have even had a nightmare about it.

It's not like I haven't been able to do customer service interactions before; I have certainly complained to my ISP any times in the past. But those felt like more structured, official complaint channels, where I was talking to a CS person specifically trained to handle particular complaints and has access to my records and whatnot. This one felt like it would be an "unhandled case" where the manager at the MD branch might not know what to do and may or may not have access to records to check what I was claiming. It was an interaction with an uncertain outcome that I was unsure how to navigate. The unknown-ness of it all was worrying me. I'm not like this all the time, but sometimes the anxiety just hits me hard for no reason!

Even while running the morning's errands the next day, I was internally hemming and hawing over whether I should push through with going back to the MD branch to complain. In the end I did. And one advantage of going there in the morning was that the employee "D" was there again this time (he was not there the previous night), and I spoke to him and told him the whole story. 

Long story short, everything turned out peachy. While he was processing other orders, "D" got the scanning device and confirmed that they did not process any such vouchers on the date in question. I showed him the status message that said it was used at this branch. He tried scanning it again, and I think it also told him the code was used at this branch. He spoke to the manager, and after a while they got back to me and said they need to report it to the head office and asked me to leave my contact details so they could call me back when there's a resolution. I agreed and wrote down my deets and walked back home with a sigh of relief, anxiety overcome. They called me again after a few hours and told me I could just come in to use the voucher at any time, and I went back later that day and used it for my mom's meds. I was just happy to be able to recover that lost value! Also super thankful to the MD branch staff for being helpful and handling everything easily and quickly, no fuss.

I suspect what happened was that the scanner device scanned the code and one of the attempts got through and the backend still processed it even though the frontend had already timed out. Which would be a major bug on their backend side, they should await confirmation before committing a transaction!

In the end, I realized I got anxious for nothing, mostly because I was overthinking things. I was worried that they would take things negatively or think I was trying to scam them and I would have to prove myself or whatever. Maybe I was just lucky that the staff turned out to be very helpful? 

It probably helped a lot that I came in with my complaint with a good attitude; I didn't make a scene or accuse anyone of wrongdoing or otherwise raise my voice or anything like that. I calmly told them what the problem was and asked if they could help. It's probably good that I did not immediately come back to complain the previous night when I was tired and frustrated and annoyed! I think in the future I need to remind myself that it is totally okay to raise concerns and try to navigate uncertain scenarios as long as you remain calm and rational and try to assume the best of humans. 