---
date: 2023-06-18T14:01:59+08:00
dontinlinephotos: true
tags:
- weeknotes
title: 2023 Week 24
---

Feels like June is passing by quickly, like most months these days. The weather has gotten a bit better, a lot less rainy, but still hot and humid. Volcanic activity is up in the country - both Taal and Mayon are showing signs. There was an earthquake the other day but as usual I slept through it and was instead woken up by the emergency alert that came 30 minutes later.

It was kind of a boring week for me, same old same old. Some errands, some side project work. Meetups with friends and relatives. That sort of thing. At least I got more [blog posts](/blog/) than usual published this week.

For the past few months, we've had *balikbayans* from the US in town, one of them was a long-time friend of mine, another pair were an aunt and uncle. They don't know each other, but coincidentally were in town around the same time. Most of my going out activity for the past few months has been either to meet up with friends to play boardgames (since our friend group is once again complete, the first time since the pandemic) or for family get-togethers. Lots of fun and pictures etc etc. The past week, the friend flew back to the US and next week the aunt and uncle are doing the same, so I expect my weeks to get even slower from here on out. Maybe I'll get more stuff done!

### Media Diet

- **Gaming**: 
    - Single player: The Switch tells me my **Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom** playtime is at "125 hours or more", which is already much more time than I spent on **Breath of the Wild**. I am close to the end of the main quest but haven't pulled the trigger yet, still being distracted by all the things to do. Might go for it sometime this week and try to write the review before month's end? Still, I am already looking at other SP games to play.
    - Wrote some [3DS games retro reviews](/2023/06/3ds-games/) (part 2 this week!)
    - Online: 
        - **Magic Arena** and **Marvel Snap** daily grinds continue. Snap has a new "Conquest Mode" out, but I haven't dived into it yet. Wrote [my limited recap for March of the Machine](/2023/06/mtgmom-limited-recap/). New set drops next week!
        - **Eternal** being played roughly once a week.
        - **Street Fighter VI** has still been challenging. Been going through all the characters one at a time and doing their placement matches. Still trying to settle on a main, but best performance so far is Ryu landing in Platinum. But Ryu is boring! Lol.

- **Reading**: Finished [Pyramids by Terry Pratchett](/2023/06/pyramids/). Haven't started a new book yet. Read a lot of comics this past week, about halfway through Avengers v1. Feed reader backlog is at a very healthy 18 items.

- **Watching**: No new movies for me this week, though there are a couple of half-finished animated ones I watched with the nieces, thinking of finishing them myself because they don't really have the attention span for that. TV-wise, been catching up with The Blacklist and The Simpsons.

### Walking

This past week (Sunday thru Saturday), Fitbit says I walked a total of 70,867 steps and burned 24,963 calories. The weather this week was much less rainier than last week's, so the challenges this week were mostly laziness, heat/humidity, and the increasingly irregular sleep cycle.

### Some Links of Interest

- [The Last Page Of The Internet | Defector](https://defector.com/the-last-page-of-the-internet): 
  
    > "We are living through the end of the useful internet. The future is informed discussion behind locked doors, in Discords and private fora, with the public-facing web increasingly filled with detritus generated by LLMs, bearing only a stylistic resemblance to useful information."

- [Why did the #TwitterMigration fail? – Café Lob-On](https://blog.bloonface.com/2023/06/12/why-did-the-twittermigration-fail/): Honestly, I just assume Mastodon will never be mainstream in the same way Linux as a desktop/laptop OS will never be mainstream - this post outlines many of the relevant reasons.

- [(Youtube) Fastest Rubik's cube 3x3 WR (3.13) sec WORLD RECORD](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gh8HX4itF_w): I think I won a Rubik's cube contest back in HS, with a time just under a minute. A far cry from this one!

- [posting is charity - by Brian Feldman - BNet](https://bnet.substack.com/p/posting-is-charity): 

    > "Analyzed collectively, Redditors grok that posting is charity, and that internet culture is sustained by the permissive, unprofitable flow of information."

- [interview with a household manager for rich people — Ask a Manager](https://www.askamanager.org/2023/06/interview-with-a-household-manager-for-rich-people.html): Some insane stories about running errands for the ultra-wealthy

Check out the [linkblog](/links/) for past links!

### This coming week

- We have a quiz night on Thursday
- Lord of the Rings set drops on Arena this week!
- Secret Invasion drops on Disney+ this week!