---
date: 2005-11-13 23:48:00
source: roywantsmeat
syndicated:
- type: blogger
  url: https://roywantsmeat.blogspot.com/2005/11/why-do-i-blog.html
tags: []
title: Why Do I Blog?
---

<blockquote>girl from work (10:19:57 AM): may blog ka ba roy?<br />zroytang (10:20:18 AM): haha bakit mo natanong?<br />girl from work (10:21:04 AM): nagbabasa kasi ako ngayon blogs ng high school friends ko e<br />girl from work (10:21:11 AM): e ikli lang :D<br />zroytang (10:21:28 AM): I have one with entries dating back to 2002 :p<br />girl from work (10:21:49 AM): tlga... updated?<br />zroytang (10:22:01 AM): minsan<br />girl from work (10:22:24 AM): may icky luv stuff dun? >:)<br />zroytang (10:23:15 AM): haha maybe, maybe not<br />girl from work (10:24:46 AM): haha :))<br />zroytang (10:26:30 AM): sometimes you write something and later, you think, "maybe I shouldn't have written that"; you look back at it later and think "what the hell was I thinking", but you should keep it up anyway, so you remember what it was like at that time :D<br />girl from work (10:27:23 AM): hehe oks lang yan... alam ko yan... nagligpit lang kami last week dito sa house... and i saw an old journal from 1996 pa :))<br />zroytang (10:27:50 AM): except yours is not in public for people to find by accident :p<br />girl from work (10:28:06 AM): hehe yep :p<br />girl from work (10:28:21 AM): anu isearch ko to find ur blog by accident >:)<br />zroytang (10:29:00 AM): ask and I will tell you; I have nothing to hide :D tsaka mostly boring stuff lang naman un, kailangan mo isaisahin yung posts to find anything remotely interesting<br />girl from work (10:29:31 AM): sige... something to read while i wait for breakfast :)<br />zroytang (10:29:49 AM): 10:30 is not a time for breakfast<br />girl from work (10:30:20 AM): brunch :D<br />zroytang (10:30:51 AM): I am thinking if it is a good idea...nobody else at work knows the url, and I am not sure if I have written anything stupid about work haha<br />girl from work (10:31:14 AM): haha... baka may mga ***** sucks ba :))<br />zroytang (10:31:23 AM): no, of course not<br />zroytang (10:31:41 AM): if I give you the url, you must give me something interesting to read in return :D<br />girl from work (10:31:54 AM): hindi akin na blog pwede? :))<br />zroytang (10:32:08 AM): mas maganda kung iyo hehe<br />girl from work (10:32:37 AM): haha... sabi ko nga wag mo na ko bigyan ng url e :))<br />zroytang (10:33:03 AM): haha bat ayaw mo<br />girl from work (10:34:02 AM): I am thinking if it is a good idea...nobody else at work knows the url, and I am not sure if I have written anything stupid about work haha<br />girl from work (10:34:10 AM): familiar ba? :))<br />zroytang (10:34:47 AM): :p<br /><br /><span style="font-style:italic;">(Edited to remove the name of my company, and keep the name of the person I'm chatting with anonymous. Not that I have anything to hide, but more because it feels like the right thing to do.)</span><br /></blockquote><br /><br />Sometimes I wonder why I do. When I started keeping a website for myself back in '02, it was more because I wanted to experience having to maintain one, and to sharpen my HTML skills (I'm pretty good at it now I think, although my web design still sucks); When Blogger started becoming prominent, I figured, might as well convert to a blog to take advantage of automatic archiving and stuff, as it was becoming tedious to update a website by hand.<br /><br />Even now, I'm not sure why I go on, when I'm not even sure if any people read this (I am aware that there are some that probably do, though they usually remain quiet :D) I'm not sure why, but I guess I feel a need to maintain an online "presence" as it were. Part-time therapy, part-time boredom, part-time egotism perhaps?<br /><br />Why then am I hesitant to let a coworker (who is also a friend) know the url? Like I said, I don't have anything to hide (and I'm pretty sure I haven't said anything stupid about my work, mostly because, hey I like my work!). If I had anything to hide, why blog in public at all? You could always hide behind Livejournal's protected system (they have one of those right?) or use an anonymous name.<br /><br />I don't have an answer. But if she (or anyone else) asks again, I will give the url. :D