content/about/contact.md, before:

---
title: "About::Contact"
date: 2020-01-11
type: page

---

### Standing Invite

I'm generally amenable to talking to strangers on the internet. If you want to talk about topics such as:

- Java, Python, JavaScript, general programming stuff
- software architecture, software development in general
- software engineering career advicce
- the Philippines
- life in general

Feel free to contact me (but maybe read the rest of this page first).

This policy was inspired by a [tweet from Stephanie Hurlburt](https://twitter.com/sehurlburt/status/889004724669661184) and also patio11's own [standing invite](https://www.kalzumeus.com/standing-invitation/). If you need tips about how to contact strangers, that last link is a great read.

### FAQ

- Can I contact you about adding a link back to my blog for promotional purposes?

No. I'm generally not interested in such arrangements. 

- Can I ask you to write a review for a product you might find interesting?

Yes. I am especially willing to write reviews for ebooks, provided it is in an area of interest and I am given a complimentary copy. Note that I don't guarantee the review will be in any way flattering. As with the rest of my writing on this site, it will be my honest opinion.

### How to contact me

For strangers, please contact me via one of the following methods:

- [email: hello@roytang.net](email:hello@roytang.net). I'm not one of those people who lets their inbox gets cluttered, so I will generally see your email within a day or so. If it's of interest, I will probably reply quickly as well. If I don't reply quickly, it's either (a) you ignored the FAQ above; or (b) I'm busy and/or need time to think of a response and will get back to you eventually.
- [Twitter: @roytang](https://twitter.com/roytang/). My DMs are open.
- [Mastodon: @roytang@mastodon.technology](https://mastodon.technology/@roytang). IDK how Mastodon DMs work, do I need to enable them?

I generally don't like taking phone calls, but if you already have my mobile number anyway and you really can't just use email, please send me an SMS first before calling.

Commit message:

New post. Add TOC support to templates. Minor edits to contact info page

content/about/contact.md, after:

---
title: "About::Contact Information"
date: 2020-01-11
type: page
toc: true
---

## Standing Invite

I'm generally amenable to talking to strangers on the internet. If you want to talk about topics such as:

- Java, Python, JavaScript, general programming stuff
- software architecture, software development in general
- software engineering career advicce
- the Philippines
- life in general

Feel free to contact me (but maybe read the rest of this page first).

This policy was inspired by a [tweet from Stephanie Hurlburt](https://twitter.com/sehurlburt/status/889004724669661184) and also patio11's own [standing invite](https://www.kalzumeus.com/standing-invitation/). If you need tips about how to contact strangers, that last link is a great read.

## FAQ

- Can I contact you about adding a link back to my blog for promotional purposes?

No. I'm generally not interested in such arrangements. Refer to [this post](/2020/01/weird-blog-spam/) for more details.

- Can I ask you to write a review for a product you might find interesting?

Yes. I am especially willing to write reviews for ebooks, provided it is in an area of interest and I am given a complimentary copy. Note that I don't guarantee the review will be in any way flattering. As with the rest of my writing on this site, it will be my honest opinion.

## How to contact me

For strangers, please contact me via one of the following methods:

- [email: hello@roytang.net](email:hello@roytang.net). I'm not one of those people who lets their inbox gets cluttered, so I will generally see your email within a day or so. If it's of interest, I will probably reply quickly as well. If I don't reply quickly, it's either (a) you ignored the FAQ above; or (b) I'm busy and/or need time to think of a response and will get back to you eventually.
- [Twitter: @roytang](https://twitter.com/roytang/). My DMs are open.
- [Mastodon: @roytang@mastodon.technology](https://mastodon.technology/@roytang). IDK how Mastodon DMs work, do I need to enable them?

I generally don't like taking phone calls, but if you already have my mobile number anyway and you really can't just use email, please send me an SMS first before calling. If you don't have my mobile number and want/need it for some reason, send me an email to ask for it.
