content/post/2020/03/covid19/index.md, before:

---
title: "COVID19 Diary"
date: 2020-03-14T22:00:00
tags:
- philippines
- current events
- diaries
---

This post will largely be about the effects of the COVID-19 virus on my country, the Philippines, including government and society's response, largely from a personal POV. It's actually a bit difficult to write about, but I figure it's something I would like to be able to look back on in the future, so let's give it a shot. The reason it's difficult to write about is that events are unfolding and changing rapidly, and a lot of things are still unclear. On top of that, there is anxiety to contend with, and all the news can make it difficult to think. And so we write, both as a record of events and to help clear my thoughts.

I was originally going to write about the recent COVID-19 virus happenings during this week's weeknotes, but I ended up writing so many words about it, so I decided to make a separate type of post. And its a new type of post, one that I tagged under "diaries". The post is being published early on the 15th, but the intent is I will be updating this post as events unfold.

### The story so far

Locally, our country had a very small number of confirmed cases coming into the last week, I think it was at around 20 or less before Sunday the 8th. And only 1 confirmed death. The president had previously addressed the country in some kind of incoherent drunken rant that didn't say much but was easily repurposed by internet memers into some kind of spoken word poetry. 

There is a shortage of face masks. People are reminded to wash their hands regularly and practice social distancing when possible. The DOH claimed we had everything under control. *Eat Bulaga* and *Showtime* have been running shows without a live studio audience. Life was still mostly normal.

But during this week, more and more cases were reported, in ever-increasing quantities. As of Saturday (the 14th) night, we were up to 111 confirmed cases and I think 8 deaths, with 40+ reported during that day alone. That fatality rate of around 7%, is way higher than the global 1-3%, which is a good indicator of how many unreported cases we probably have locally, due to the severe lack of testing.

### Thursday, March the 12th

The explosive growth in cases finally made the government take drastic action; around Thursday lunchtime, rumors started circulating in online circles that the authorities were planning a lockdown of the National Capital Region. This included a leaked memo listing the recommendations that the president would have to decide on. Many details were not known, like what exactly would happen in such a lockdown. What we did know was that the lockdown would start reportedly start on Sunday, the 15th and would last for 30 days.

The markets did not take the rumors well. Shortly before closing, the Philippine Stock Exchange circuit breaker was triggered after the index had dropped more than 10% on the day. The index recovered slightly before closing at around -9.x%. It was a bloodbath.

During my late afternoon walk I decided to pass by the nearby grocery because there had already been reports of large crowds. Sure enough there were way more people than usual. I really only wanted to get Tostitos dip, but they were out of stock of that. Why were people hoarding it? Alcohol and hand sanitizer were out of stock as well, as expected. From the chatter I overheard, people were well aware of the rumored announcement later that day. My parents weren't planning to do our weekly grocery run until Friday night, but I decided to pick up a few essentials (bread, eggs, canned goods, etc) early since I was there. 

A press conference was announced for around 6-630pm. True to form, the conference only started around a couple of hours late. Most of it consisted of the president telling the people to listen to the health authorities, reading out the details of the memo (exactly the one that was leaked, leaving many questions), in his usual annoying rambling style. (To his benefit, he seemed way more lucid than his last public speech.)

The lockdown covered Metro Manila, banning domestic travel over land, sea, and air. International travel was still around. The press conference did not provide any details of how the lockdown would be enforced or any plan for increased testing or support for health care front-liners or new health care supplies. No details of how people who live outside the NCR but work there during the day would be handled. No word on support programs for people who will lose paying work because of the arrangements. The president did not acknowledge the efforts of public health care workers, but instead for some reason, decided to thank China for supposedly supporting us. (Even though the virus came from them.)

Many of my group chats are abuzz, discussing the turn of events and the lack of details, with the general consensus being: *ANG LABO!*

A doctor friend reports that she has been in quarantine and is awaiting results of the COVID19 test because she was in contact with possible carriers. We wish her good luck.

Some people I knew had flown out of the NCR to the provinces for some R&R and their flight back would be from Saturday night to Sunday early morning, so they would be caught by the lockdown. I jokingly said that since international flights weren't banned, they could just fly out to Malaysia or such, then fly back in to NAIA. 

I note that on this day, 16 new confirmed cases were reported, while 9 and 4 cases were reported the two days prior. This implies to me that we're looking at 25 cases the next day.

My opinion: I general accept that the lockdown is probably necessary, but not with the implied threat of police/military action. Focus should be on improving testing and healthcare resources.

### Friday, March the 13th

It's Friday the 13th! This morning, the PSE circuit breaker triggers again, mere minutes after trade opens. The markets did not like last night's announcements either.

[Twitter tells us](/2020/03/1238286699706200064/) that the MRT officials have started applying social distancing rules, only letting a limited number of people on the trains per station. This results in very long lines outside the stations, kind of negating the social distancing anyway. I'm glad I'm no longer a regular commuter.

I recommend to my parents to do the regular grocery run earlier, and as a result I have to accompany my mom on the trip, just after lunch. Even then, the nearby grocery was packed, with maybe 200% more people than the usual peak. Sanitation items like hand sanitizer and alcohol were out of stock. Eggs were too for some reason (luckily I had already bought some the day before). Common canned goods were still on shelves, but the more popular ones were in short supply. The "panic buying" isn't as much as we see reported in other countries where many shelves are bare. Friends who go to larger groceries like SNR report 2-hr wait times at the checkout line. Ours takes around 30 mins. 

Spokespersons for different government agencies have begun issuing statements clarifying how things will actually work during the lockdown -- excuse me, "community quarantine". The air and sea restrictions are pretty clear, but the land restrictions seem impossible to implement without massive traffic. The intent is to have checkpoints at roads in and out of the metro, and to inspect passengers one by one to make sure their trips are essential. There is still no plan on how to support people who cannot work due to the lockdown.

Local churches announce suspension of mass services.

Group chats are abuzz all day with discussions such as:

- how their companies are preparing for WFH. Some of my friends work at a company with over 200 people and they had been preparing a business continuity plan during the week, but last night's announcements have accelerated plans. They need to purchase laptops and pocket wifis for those who don't have hardware or internet at home. 
- disinfectant alternatives due to lack of supply of alcohol and hand sanitizer.
- word is a doctor at the Philippine Heart Center has been intubated because a patient lied about her travel history.
- My doctor friend happily reports that she has tested negative, but that she still has to stay quarantined for 14 days. Our healthcare system will not survive any uptick in cases which causes large swathes of our medical professionals to be taken out of play for 2 weeks at a time.
- I note the strong parallels between Trump and Duterte's approaches: both held disastrous press conferences that resulted in markets crashing!

I tell everyone that since things are unclear, just stay home as much as possible. I am privileged enough that I can largely follow this advice, and many of my friends work in industries where WFH is viable. The ones who will be disproportionally affected are the poor - the ones who can't afford not to work or have no way to work remotely. 

At the end of the trading day, the PSE has managed to recover a bit, closing at +1.x% up. 

Only 3 new confirmed cases are reported today, defying my pattern recognition skills.

### Saturday, March the 14th

It's Pi day!

We have a small extended family lunch gathering today, mostly as a send-off to some *balikbayan* relatives who are flying back to the US in a couple of weeks. The gathering was originally scheduled for Sunday, but because of the announcement we rescheduled to Saturday to avoid complications. Fewer people are able to attend, and we just have takeout instead of going to a restaurant as originally planned.

In the afternoon, there is a presscon where the MMDA/PNP/some mayors are talking about a one month curfew from 8PM-5AM. The interior secretary threatens arrest for those who refuse to go home during the curfew. This causes a mix of reactions on social media and in the group chats. During the time I was still a regular commuter, by 8PM I would not have been able to get on a bus yet. The authorities are also requesting that malls close except for essential services such as supermarkets, banks and pharmacies.

Strain in the healthcare system is starting to show. Multiple reports of healthcare personnel lacking alcohol, hand sanitizer, gloves, and other personal protective equipment (PPE).

Local media giant ABS-CBN announces their hit primetime dramas are going off the air starting next week, to be replaced by reruns. Finally, a villain that *Ang Probinsyano* is unable to defeat.

All day there are reports of massive crowds at the bus stations of people planning to leave the metro before the lockdown. The exodus is worse than Christmas or Holy Week holidays. Airline ticketing offices are also swamped with people looking for refunds and rebookings. 

Early in the evening, they start rolling back the curfew announcement, saying it was just recommendations, and that the MMDA has no authority to impose a curfew, unless the LGUs pass ordinances to enable such. PCOO's Andanar calls such reports "fake news". (Never mind that the government people were live on TV talking about it.)

By the end of the day, 47 new confirmed cases had been reported, for a total of 111. (If my pattern recognition had held, today would have seen 36 new cases. Not too far off.) Some posts from healthcare workers suggest that some of the new cases are from the poorer Payatas and BASECO areas. An outbreak in those areas would be really bad, as the spread would be very difficult to control. And the tests are delayed by about two days - by now many people may have been infected in those areas. The DOH is yet to release details of the new cases.

Late in the evening, the [NCRPO announces](https://twitter.com/ANCALERTS/status/1238843668485685248) that instead of checkpoints, they will just implement increased police visibility at the metro exit points. Thread says they had meetings late into the night, I suspected they realized how ridiculous the original plan was.

It becomes increasingly clear how poor the planning and coordination for this event was, that they are just ironing out details and making plans up more or less on the fly. We had weeks where they were saying not to worry and things were under control, that time should have been spent preparing for contingencies such as this. This does not inspire confidence.

Minor annoyance: social media people who say we should just obey without question. We don't have to obey dumbass rules!

Regardless, my intent is just to stay at home as much as possible. 

To be continued...

Commit message:

Added support for pinned items

content/post/2020/03/covid19/index.md, after:

---
title: "COVID19 Diary"
date: 2020-03-14T22:00:00
slug: covid19
tags:
- philippines
- current events
- diaries
pinned: true
---

This post will largely be about the effects of the COVID-19 virus on my country, the Philippines, including government and society's response, largely from a personal POV. It's actually a bit difficult to write about, but I figure it's something I would like to be able to look back on in the future, so let's give it a shot. The reason it's difficult to write about is that events are unfolding and changing rapidly, and a lot of things are still unclear. On top of that, there is anxiety to contend with, and all the news can make it difficult to think. And so we write, both as a record of events and to help clear my thoughts.

I was originally going to write about the recent COVID-19 virus happenings during this week's weeknotes, but I ended up writing so many words about it, so I decided to make a separate type of post. And its a new type of post, one that I tagged under "diaries". The post is being published early on the 15th, but the intent is I will be updating this post as events unfold.

### The story so far

Locally, our country had a very small number of confirmed cases coming into the last week, I think it was at around 20 or less before Sunday the 8th. And only 1 confirmed death. The president had previously addressed the country in some kind of incoherent drunken rant that didn't say much but was easily repurposed by internet memers into some kind of spoken word poetry. 

There is a shortage of face masks. People are reminded to wash their hands regularly and practice social distancing when possible. The DOH claimed we had everything under control. *Eat Bulaga* and *Showtime* have been running shows without a live studio audience. Life was still mostly normal.

But during this week, more and more cases were reported, in ever-increasing quantities. As of Saturday (the 14th) night, we were up to 111 confirmed cases and I think 8 deaths, with 40+ reported during that day alone. That fatality rate of around 7%, is way higher than the global 1-3%, which is a good indicator of how many unreported cases we probably have locally, due to the severe lack of testing.

### Thursday, March the 12th

The explosive growth in cases finally made the government take drastic action; around Thursday lunchtime, rumors started circulating in online circles that the authorities were planning a lockdown of the National Capital Region. This included a leaked memo listing the recommendations that the president would have to decide on. Many details were not known, like what exactly would happen in such a lockdown. What we did know was that the lockdown would start reportedly start on Sunday, the 15th and would last for 30 days.

The markets did not take the rumors well. Shortly before closing, the Philippine Stock Exchange circuit breaker was triggered after the index had dropped more than 10% on the day. The index recovered slightly before closing at around -9.x%. It was a bloodbath.

During my late afternoon walk I decided to pass by the nearby grocery because there had already been reports of large crowds. Sure enough there were way more people than usual. I really only wanted to get Tostitos dip, but they were out of stock of that. Why were people hoarding it? Alcohol and hand sanitizer were out of stock as well, as expected. From the chatter I overheard, people were well aware of the rumored announcement later that day. My parents weren't planning to do our weekly grocery run until Friday night, but I decided to pick up a few essentials (bread, eggs, canned goods, etc) early since I was there. 

A press conference was announced for around 6-630pm. True to form, the conference only started around a couple of hours late. Most of it consisted of the president telling the people to listen to the health authorities, reading out the details of the memo (exactly the one that was leaked, leaving many questions), in his usual annoying rambling style. (To his benefit, he seemed way more lucid than his last public speech.)

The lockdown covered Metro Manila, banning domestic travel over land, sea, and air. International travel was still around. The press conference did not provide any details of how the lockdown would be enforced or any plan for increased testing or support for health care front-liners or new health care supplies. No details of how people who live outside the NCR but work there during the day would be handled. No word on support programs for people who will lose paying work because of the arrangements. The president did not acknowledge the efforts of public health care workers, but instead for some reason, decided to thank China for supposedly supporting us. (Even though the virus came from them.)

Many of my group chats are abuzz, discussing the turn of events and the lack of details, with the general consensus being: *ANG LABO!*

A doctor friend reports that she has been in quarantine and is awaiting results of the COVID19 test because she was in contact with possible carriers. We wish her good luck.

Some people I knew had flown out of the NCR to the provinces for some R&R and their flight back would be from Saturday night to Sunday early morning, so they would be caught by the lockdown. I jokingly said that since international flights weren't banned, they could just fly out to Malaysia or such, then fly back in to NAIA. 

I note that on this day, 16 new confirmed cases were reported, while 9 and 4 cases were reported the two days prior. This implies to me that we're looking at 25 cases the next day.

My opinion: I general accept that the lockdown is probably necessary, but not with the implied threat of police/military action. Focus should be on improving testing and healthcare resources.

### Friday, March the 13th

It's Friday the 13th! This morning, the PSE circuit breaker triggers again, mere minutes after trade opens. The markets did not like last night's announcements either.

[Twitter tells us](/2020/03/1238286699706200064/) that the MRT officials have started applying social distancing rules, only letting a limited number of people on the trains per station. This results in very long lines outside the stations, kind of negating the social distancing anyway. I'm glad I'm no longer a regular commuter.

I recommend to my parents to do the regular grocery run earlier, and as a result I have to accompany my mom on the trip, just after lunch. Even then, the nearby grocery was packed, with maybe 200% more people than the usual peak. Sanitation items like hand sanitizer and alcohol were out of stock. Eggs were too for some reason (luckily I had already bought some the day before). Common canned goods were still on shelves, but the more popular ones were in short supply. The "panic buying" isn't as much as we see reported in other countries where many shelves are bare. Friends who go to larger groceries like SNR report 2-hr wait times at the checkout line. Ours takes around 30 mins. 

Spokespersons for different government agencies have begun issuing statements clarifying how things will actually work during the lockdown -- excuse me, "community quarantine". The air and sea restrictions are pretty clear, but the land restrictions seem impossible to implement without massive traffic. The intent is to have checkpoints at roads in and out of the metro, and to inspect passengers one by one to make sure their trips are essential. There is still no plan on how to support people who cannot work due to the lockdown.

Local churches announce suspension of mass services.

Group chats are abuzz all day with discussions such as:

- how their companies are preparing for WFH. Some of my friends work at a company with over 200 people and they had been preparing a business continuity plan during the week, but last night's announcements have accelerated plans. They need to purchase laptops and pocket wifis for those who don't have hardware or internet at home. 
- disinfectant alternatives due to lack of supply of alcohol and hand sanitizer.
- word is a doctor at the Philippine Heart Center has been intubated because a patient lied about her travel history.
- My doctor friend happily reports that she has tested negative, but that she still has to stay quarantined for 14 days. Our healthcare system will not survive any uptick in cases which causes large swathes of our medical professionals to be taken out of play for 2 weeks at a time.
- I note the strong parallels between Trump and Duterte's approaches: both held disastrous press conferences that resulted in markets crashing!

I tell everyone that since things are unclear, just stay home as much as possible. I am privileged enough that I can largely follow this advice, and many of my friends work in industries where WFH is viable. The ones who will be disproportionally affected are the poor - the ones who can't afford not to work or have no way to work remotely. 

The mayor of Quezon City has declared a state of calamity.

At the end of the trading day, the PSE has managed to recover a bit, closing at +1.x% up. 

Only 3 new confirmed cases are reported today, defying my pattern recognition skills.

### Saturday, March the 14th

It's Pi day!

We have a small extended family lunch gathering today, mostly as a send-off to some *balikbayan* relatives who are flying back to the US in a couple of weeks. The gathering was originally scheduled for Sunday, but because of the announcement we rescheduled to Saturday to avoid complications. Fewer people are able to attend, and we just have takeout instead of going to a restaurant as originally planned.

In the afternoon, there is a presscon where the MMDA/PNP/some mayors are talking about a one month curfew from 8PM-5AM. The interior secretary threatens arrest for those who refuse to go home during the curfew. This causes a mix of reactions on social media and in the group chats. During the time I was still a regular commuter, by 8PM I would not have been able to get on a bus yet. The authorities are also requesting that malls close except for essential services such as supermarkets, banks and pharmacies.

Strain in the healthcare system is starting to show. Multiple reports of healthcare personnel lacking alcohol, hand sanitizer, gloves, and other personal protective equipment (PPE).

Local media giant ABS-CBN announces their hit primetime dramas are going off the air starting next week, to be replaced by reruns. Finally, a villain that *Ang Probinsyano* is unable to defeat.

All day there are reports of massive crowds at the bus stations of people planning to leave the metro before the lockdown. The exodus is worse than Christmas or Holy Week holidays. Airline ticketing offices are also swamped with people looking for refunds and rebookings. 

Early in the evening, they start rolling back the curfew announcement, saying it was just recommendations, and that the MMDA has no authority to impose a curfew, unless the LGUs pass ordinances to enable such. PCOO's Andanar calls such reports "fake news". (Never mind that the government people were live on TV talking about it.)

By the end of the day, 47 new confirmed cases had been reported, for a total of 111. (If my pattern recognition had held, today would have seen 36 new cases. Not too far off.) Some posts from healthcare workers suggest that some of the new cases are from the poorer Payatas and BASECO areas. An outbreak in those areas would be really bad, as the spread would be very difficult to control. And the tests are delayed by about two days - by now many people may have been infected in those areas. The DOH is yet to release details of the new cases.

Late in the evening, the [NCRPO announces](https://twitter.com/ANCALERTS/status/1238843668485685248) that instead of checkpoints, they will just implement increased police visibility at the metro exit points. Thread says they had meetings late into the night, I suspected they realized how ridiculous the original plan was.

It becomes increasingly clear how poor the planning and coordination for this event was, that they are just ironing out details and making plans up more or less on the fly. We had weeks where they were saying not to worry and things were under control, that time should have been spent preparing for contingencies such as this. This does not inspire confidence.

Minor annoyance: social media people who say we should just obey without question. We don't have to obey dumbass rules!

Regardless, my intent is just to stay at home as much as possible. 

To be continued...
