---
author: roy
categories:
- Software Development
date: 2017-02-16 01:30:00
title: Integrating Open Source Libraries
type: post
url: /2017/02/integrating-open-source-libraries/
---

There are a few things that one should consider when using and integrating an open source library into your application:

  1. <span data-offset-key="668k1-0-0">What are the licensing terms for the library? There are some liberal licenses that </span><span class="adverb"><span data-offset-key="668k1-1-0">mostly</span></span> <span data-offset-key="668k1-2-0">let you do anything you want. The MIT license is an example of a very permissive license. Other licenses may provide </span><span class="complexword"><span data-offset-key="668k1-3-0">a number of</span></span> <span data-offset-key="668k1-4-0">restrictions. Can you integrate with closed-source software? Can you distribute binaries without the source? Do you need to put some kind of attribution somewhere in your software? Another thing to look our for are the so-called viral licenses. </span><span class="hardreadability"><span data-offset-key="668k1-5-0">Viral licenses specify that if you integrate their code into your system, then the terms of that license apply to your own software as well</span></span><span data-offset-key="668k1-6-0">. </span><span class="hardreadability"><span data-offset-key="668k1-7-0"> These can be very dangerous from the standpoint of a company developing a commercial product</span></span><span data-offset-key="668k1-8-0">. The most well-known example of such copyleft licenses is the GPL. Integrating GPL code into your system will often mean your software needs to be open source as well. While more open source is good, it may not be in the best interest of your company, so tread </span><span class="adverb"><span data-offset-key="668k1-9-0">lightly</span></span><span data-offset-key="668k1-10-0">.</span>
  2. <span data-offset-key="74amj-0-0">Which version of the library will you use? Many open source libraries will release updates on a regular basis. There may be some compatibility issues depending on the version you use. For example the popular open source CMS WordPress releases regular updates. </span><span class="hardreadability"><span data-offset-key="74amj-1-0">If you are integrating with WordPress, you need to decide which version you are supporting</span></span><span data-offset-key="74amj-2-0">. </span><span class="hardreadability"><span data-offset-key="74amj-3-0">You will also need a plan for upgrading to future versions and ensuring compatibility</span></span><span data-offset-key="74amj-4-0">. (See the next item.)</span>
  3. <span data-offset-key="9tfrc-0-0">How will you handle bugs and updates in the version you've chosen? </span><span class="hardreadability"><span data-offset-key="9tfrc-1-0">It's happened that our system was having problems due to a bug in an open source Javascript rich text control library</span></span><span data-offset-key="9tfrc-2-0">. After investigating, we found that a fix was available but was only applied in a future version. </span><span class="hardreadability"><span data-offset-key="9tfrc-3-0">Upgrading to that future version would </span></span><span class="complexword"><span data-offset-key="9tfrc-4-0">require</span></span><span class="hardreadability"><span data-offset-key="9tfrc-5-0"> that we test the entire system for compatibility problems</span></span><span data-offset-key="9tfrc-6-0">. That was out of the question. I ended up having to apply a fix to our local version only. This meant that we now had a different version from the &#8220;official&#8221; released version. This may lead to further compatibility problems in the future. You should also be aware of licensing issues here too. </span><span class="hardreadability"><span data-offset-key="9tfrc-7-0">The license may </span></span><span class="complexword"><span data-offset-key="9tfrc-8-0">require</span></span><span class="hardreadability"><span data-offset-key="9tfrc-9-0"> that you submit any modifications to the community as open source contributions</span></span><span data-offset-key="9tfrc-10-0">.</span>
  4. <span data-offset-key="d3jml-0-0">Is there an active help and support system for the software? The demands of enterprise software development often need timely support. There was a time we had to use a certain open source document management system. </span><span class="hardreadability"><span data-offset-key="d3jml-1-0">We later discovered that it was very hard to get help on any issues encountered, either from official channels or the community</span></span><span data-offset-key="d3jml-2-0">. This led to many difficulties and issues in that project. You might also want to check popular programming forums such as StackOverflow. Check how many questions about that library usually remain unanswered. If the number is low, that's a good indicator that you might have trouble looking for help later on.</span>
  5. What dependencies does the library have? You might want to make sure the dependencies don't have any problems with the previous items above.

The great thing about modern software development is that we have a large number of open source libraries available to use and draw inspiration from, but that doesn't mean you can just willy-nilly pick up just any library. The above questions provide a good starting point for evaluating open source libraries for your use.