---
date: 2018-05-26 15:37:32
repost_source:
  name: fireandlifeincarnate
  type: tumblr
  url: https://fireandlifeincarnate.tumblr.com/post/144593599442/look-write-as-much-shitty-fic-as-you-want
source: tumblr
syndicated:
- type: tumblr
  url: https://tumblr.roytang.net/post/174273563930/neomikey-darkandstormyslash
- type: twitter
  url: https://twitter.com/roytang/statuses/1000400551299964928/
---

<p><a href="http://neomikey.tumblr.com/post/171506192400/darkandstormyslash-fireandlifeincarnate" class="tumblr_blog">neomikey</a>:</p>
<blockquote>
<p><a href="http://darkandstormyslash.tumblr.com/post/154648694948/fireandlifeincarnate-look-write-as-much" class="tumblr_blog">darkandstormyslash</a>:</p>
<blockquote>
<p><a class="tumblr_blog" href="http://fireandlifeincarnate.tumblr.com/post/144593599442">fireandlifeincarnate</a>:</p>
<blockquote>
<p>look…………….. write as much shitty fic as you want. nobody can stop you. you’re learning constantly and it’s better to write hackneyed implausible ridiculousness than it is to not write at all out of fear of fucking up. you’re good</p>
</blockquote>
<p>There was an experiment a professor did. I think it was pottery students. He did an experiment of “quality” vs “quantity”. One half of the class he told; you have to make as many pots as possible. Good pots, bad pots, shitty pots, whatever. The more pots you make, the higher your grade.</p>
<p>The other half of the class were told, “you can make only one pot”. But that pot had to be perfect. The quality had to be high; the highest quality pot would get the best mark.</p>
<p>But when it came to the grading, they noticed something weird.</p>
<p>All the best quality pots were in the ‘quantity’ group.</p>
<p>The guys who were literally churning out pots, trying to make as many as possible, not concentrating on the quality. But every pot they made, made them better at making pots. By the end of the month (I think it was a month) - they had some pretty awesome pots coming out, because they enjoying finding all the ways and all the things they could do to make all their pots. Where as the ‘quality’ guys had spent their time reading up on pots, and technique, and researching and planning; which was all great but they’d had no further practice at actually making pots.</p>
<p>The best way to get really good at something, the only way to be<i> really</i> good at something, is to make lots of shitty attempts at that thing several of which will fail. If all you create are perfect things then you won’t improve, because how can you improve on perfect?</p>
<p><b>tl:dr MAKE YOUR SHITTY POTS.</b></p>
</blockquote>
<p>

“I fear not the man who has practiced 10,000 kicks once, but I fear the man who had practiced one kick 10,000 times.”<br/></p>
<p>-Bruce Lee</p>
</blockquote>