---
date: 2015-02-02 09:05:01
repost_source:
  name: kellysue
  type: tumblr
  url: https://kellysue.tumblr.com/post/109813291173/this-is-an-excellent-writing-advice-from-chuck
source: tumblr
syndicated:
- type: tumblr
  url: https://tumblr.roytang.net/post/109864632055/this-is-an-excellent-writing-advice-from-chuck
- type: twitter
  url: https://twitter.com/roytang/statuses/562174841680584704/
tags:
- quotes
---

<blockquote><p>This is an excellent writing advice from Chuck Palahniuk. This was first seen on tumblr. Unfortunately, when I clicked on the link, it no longer existed.</p>

<p>But, I still think it’s worth sharing.</p>

<p>writingadvice: by Chuck Palahniuk</p>



<p>In six seconds, you’ll hate me.<br/>
But in six months, you’ll be a better writer.</p>



<p>From this point forward—at least for the next half year—you may not<br/>
use “thought” verbs. These include: Thinks, Knows, Understands,<br/>
Realizes, Believes, Wants, Remembers, Imagines, Desires, and a hundred<br/>
others you love to use.</p>



<p>The list should also include: Loves and Hates.<br/>
And it should include: Is and Has, but we’ll get to those later.</p>



<p>Until some time around Christmas, you can’t write: Kenny wondered if Monica didn’t like him going out at night…”</p>



<p>Instead, you’ll have to Un-pack that to something like: “The<br/>
mornings after Kenny had stayed out, beyond the last bus, until he’d<br/>
had to bum a ride or pay for a cab and got home to find Monica faking<br/>
sleep, faking because she never slept that quiet, those mornings, she’d<br/>
only put her own cup of coffee in the microwave. Never his.”</p>



<p>Instead of characters knowing anything, you must now present<br/>
the details that allow the reader to know them. Instead of a character<br/>
wanting something, you must now describe the thing so that the reader<br/>
wants it.</p>



<p>Instead of saying: “Adam knew Gwen liked him.” You’ll have<br/>
to say: “Between classes, Gwen had always leaned on his locker when he’d<br/>
go to open it. She’s roll her eyes and shove off with one foot,<br/>
leaving a black-heel mark on the painted metal, but she also left the<br/>
smell of her perfume. The combination lock would still be warm from her<br/>
butt. And the next break, Gwen would be leaned there, again.”</p>



<p>In short, no more short-cuts. Only specific sensory detail: action, smell, taste, sound, and feeling.</p>

<p>Typically,<br/>
writers use these “thought” verbs at the beginning of a paragraph (In<br/>
this form, you can call them “Thesis Statements” and I’ll rail against<br/>
those, later). In a way, they state the intention of the paragraph. And<br/>
what follows, illustrates them.</p>



<p>For example:<br/>
“Brenda knew she’d never make the deadline. Traffic<br/>
was backed up from the bridge, past the first eight or nine exits. Her<br/>
cell phone battery was dead. At home, the dogs would need to go out, or<br/>
there would be a mess to clean up. Plus, she’d promised to water the<br/>
plants for her neighbor…”</p>



<p>Do you see how the opening “thesis statement” steals the thunder of what follows? Don’t do it.</p>



<p>If nothing else, cut the opening sentence and place it after all the others. Better yet, transplant it and change it to: Brenda would never make the deadline.</p>



<p>Thinking is abstract. Knowing and believing are intangible. Your<br/>
story will always be stronger if you just show the physical actions<br/>
and details of your characters and allow your reader to do the thinking<br/>
and knowing. And loving and hating.</p>



<p>Don’t tell your reader: “Lisa hated Tom.”</p>



<p>Instead, make your case like a lawyer in court, detail by detail.</p>



<p>Present each piece of evidence. For example:<br/>
“During roll call,<br/>
in the breath after the teacher said Tom’s name, in that moment before<br/>
he could answer, right then, Lisa would whisper-shout ‘Butt Wipe,’ just<br/>
as Tom was saying, ‘Here’.”</p>



<p>One of the most-common mistakes that beginning writers make is leaving their characters alone. Writing,<br/>
you may be alone. Reading, your audience may be alone. But your<br/>
character should spend very, very little time alone. Because a solitary<br/>
character starts thinking or worrying or wondering.</p>



<p>For example: Waiting for the bus, Mark started to worry about how long the trip would take…”</p>



<p>A better break-down might be: “The schedule said the bus would come<br/>
by at noon, but Mark’s watch said it was already 11:57. You could see<br/>
all the way down the road, as far as the Mall, and not see a bus. No<br/>
doubt, the driver was parked at the turn-around, the far end of the<br/>
line, taking a nap. The driver was kicked back, asleep, and Mark was<br/>
going to be late. Or worse, the driver was drinking, and he’d pull up<br/>
drunk and charge Mark seventy-five cents for death in a fiery traffic<br/>
accident…”</p>



<p>A character alone must lapse into fantasy or memory, but even then<br/>
you can’t use “thought” verbs or any of their abstract relatives.</p>



<p>Oh, and you can just forget about using the verbs forget and remember.</p>



<p>No more transitions such as: “Wanda remembered how Nelson used to brush her hair.”</p>



<p>Instead: “Back in their sophomore year, Nelson used to brush her hair with smooth, long strokes of his hand.”</p>



<p>Again, Un-pack. Don’t take short-cuts.</p>



<p>Better yet, get your character with another character, fast.<br/>
Get them together and get the action started. Let their actions and<br/>
words show their thoughts. You—stay out of their heads.</p>



<p>And while you’re avoiding “thought” verbs, be very wary about using the bland verbs “is” and “have.”</p>



<p>For example:<br/>
“Ann’s eyes are blue.”</p>



<p>“Ann has blue eyes.”</p>



<p>Versus:</p>



<p>“Ann coughed and waved one hand past her face, clearing the cigarette smoke from her eyes, blue eyes, before she smiled…”</p>



<p>Instead of bland “is” and “has” statements, try burying your details<br/>
of what a character has or is, in actions or gestures. At its most<br/>
basic, this is showing your story instead of telling it.</p>



<p>And forever after, once you’ve learned to Un-pack your characters,<br/>
you’ll hate the lazy writer who settles for: “Jim sat beside the<br/>
telephone, wondering why Amanda didn’t call.”</p>



<p>Please. For now, hate me all you want, but don’t use thought verbs. After Christmas, go crazy, but I’d bet money you won’t.</p>



<p>(…)</p>



<p>For this month’s homework, pick through your writing and circle every “thought” verb. Then, find some way to eliminate it. Kill it by Un-packing it.</p>



<p>Then, pick through some published fiction and do the same thing. Be ruthless.</p>



<p>“Marty imagined fish, jumping in the moonlight…”</p>



<p>“Nancy recalled the way the wine tasted…”</p>



<p>“Larry knew he was a dead man…”</p>



<p>Find them. After that, find a way to re-write them. Make them stronger.</p></blockquote>

--<p>Thanks Hiraku! (via </p><p><a href="http://wingedbeastie.tumblr.com/" class="tumblr_blog">wingedbeastie</a></p><p>)</p><p>This reminded me of the process of drawing narrative without a narrative voice or thought bubble.</p><p>(via <a href="http://d-pi.tumblr.com/" class="tumblr_blog">d-pi</a>)</p>