---
title: "Leviathan Wakes by James S.A. Corey"
date: 2022-01-24T15:50:40+08:00
tags:
- books
reviews:
- media: books
  title: "Leviathan Wakes by James S.A. Corey"
---

Finished reading this last night. It's the first book of The Expanse series, on which the [pretty good TV series](/2022/01/expanse/) is based.

If you're unfamiliar, The Expanse is set a few hundred years in the future, at a time when humanity has expanded to most of the solar system. Mars is being terraformed, and there are stations set up in the asteroid belt beyond Mars and on the moons of the outer planets. The primary conflicts in the series revolve around the two major powers Earth and Mars and the people of the outer planets, collectively called The Belt, who have historically been oppressed by the "Inners". The conflict is thrown into high gear with the discovery of a strange alien technology that is first introduced in this book.

I'm amazed how closely the book's plot mirrors the TV series, showing how faithful the adaptation was. The book's POV characters are Miller, a cop on Ceres station in the Belt, and Holden, an XO for a water hauler working in the outer planets, so the entire book happens in the Belt. Earth and Mars are just distant planets they hear news from every so often.

The best thing about the series is that the sci-fi is really solid. Every description of space flight and of societies and industries that developed in the outer planets take into account the science behind any expected problems. Artificial gravity isn't some handwaved magic system, it's generated by ships' thrust or stations' spin. If the ships go too fast, the crew have to be drugged to survive the increased gravity. Water haulers harvest ice from the colder outer planets and moons in order to supply the stations in the belt. When some unexpected thing happens, the characters struggle to understand the physics behind how it could be possible. A lot of these details are glossed over in the series, so you get a lot more detail from the book.

I'm actually wondering if it's worth it to go through all the books just for those details, if the rest of the books follow the plot of the show as closely as this one. I believe the events in the book cover the first season and a half of the show, and there are six seasons aired in total, and I kind of already want to know what happens after that. The next book will probably be introducing POV characters from Earth (Avasarala) and Mars (Bobbie) who are two of my favorite characters, so at the very least I'll probably be reading the second book.