---
date: 2016-02-20 17:52:00
source: facebook
syndicated:
- type: facebook
  url: https://www.facebook.com/stephen.roy.tang/posts/10154385571378912
tags: []
---

Tomorrow will be the first Presidential debate. If I were hosting the debate, here are some of the questions I would want each candidate to address:  1. if you weren't running, who would you vote/support for president? 2. how can we educate voters to make better decisions so that candidates are elected based on merit and not merely on name recall or popularity? 3. how can we reform campaign finance, so that it becomes transparent and candidates are not beholden to campaign donors? 4. how can we improve the slow pace of justice in the philippines? 5. do you think there is currently too much power in the executive? what improvements can we make to have the legislature and the judiciary be more independent? 6. how can we make it easier and more attractive to start small/medium enterprises? 7. how can we minimize red tape in government transactions and make government agencies more efficient? 8. how can we make it more difficult for government employees from extorting citizens or otherwise abusing their authority? how can we make it easier to catch those who do? 9. what safeguards can we place in the procurement process to avoid getting bad deals for the government? 10. what are your plans to use ICT to improve government services and transparency? 11. what are your plans for reducing the high cost of electricity in the country? 12. do you think the people are getting what they deserve for the taxes they pay? what are your plans for reducing the tax burden on our people? 13. What plans do you have for improving our education system to increase literacy rates, reduce drop out rates and in general improve the quality of our schools?  Edit: 14. How can we get rid of the culture of patronage politics, or people expecting politicians to give them favors in exchange for support? 15. What are your plans for making sure the economic growth experienced by the country improves the lives of more people?  I suspect none of the above topics will be discussed tomorrow though. And if ever, most will reply with generic/motherhood statements. But maybe I'll be pleasantly surprised.