---
date: 2016-05-22 00:00:00
slug: i-feel-that-i-m-a-boring-perso
source: quora
syndicated:
- type: quora
  url: https://www.quora.com/I-feel-that-Im-a-boring-person-what-should-I-do-to-be-less-boring/answer/Roy-Tang
tags:
- answers
---

Someone on [quora](https://quora.com) asked:
> [I feel that I'm a boring person, what should I do to be less boring?](https://www.quora.com/I-feel-that-Im-a-boring-person-what-should-I-do-to-be-less-boring/answer/Roy-Tang)
<span class="ui_qtext_rendered_qtext"><p class="ui_qtext_para u-ltr u-text-align--start">Don’t feel bad for being a quiet person. Quiet people are cool.</p><p class="ui_qtext_para u-ltr u-text-align--start">Don’t compare yourself to other people. Not everyone has to be the life of the party.</p><p class="ui_qtext_para u-ltr u-text-align--start">Instead of worrying about being a quiet person or whether other people see you as boring, ask yourself this: are you a true person?</p><p class="ui_qtext_para u-ltr u-text-align--start">Being a true person means that you are honest and open. It means that you are comfortable enough with yourself that you don’t mind talking about your own interests and passions when other people are interested and keeping quiet when they are not. It means not being pretentious and not changing yourself simply to become more popular or liked.</p><p class="ui_qtext_para u-ltr u-text-align--start">When you are a true person, you don’t have to worry about whether you are boring or interesting. Here is a truth: every person can be boring or interesting to other people, it all depends on whether those other people share the same passions or culture with you. I work in software development, so when I encounter another software developer in the wild, we can easily have good conversations even if we are strangers. Being a true person facilitates this: when people see that you are honest and open and unpretentious, those who share your interests and passions will be more likely to gravitate to you.</p><p class="ui_qtext_para u-ltr u-text-align--start">Aside from that, one other tip I can give you is: be interested in other people. What you think of other people matters more to them, so if you show interest in them, they are more likely to show an interest in you. This means being willing to listen to them and their stories to figure out where their interest lies, and asking them questions to make them elaborate on those interests.</p><p class="ui_qtext_para u-ltr u-text-align--start">Being a true person helps here too, because people can easily spot fake interest. Be genuinely interested in other people. Even if you dislike another person, try to find something about him that you find interesting and try to make him talk more about it.</p></span>